Assessment 8  writeup - race/ethnicity section

ETL -
The US Census data used in this document was imported through the Census API, using a get request code to pull in a text formatted file containing all of the necessary data. Due to its structure, this file was processed as a json file, allowing for the importing of its contents into a pandas dataframe within Python. In this section, the focus is on the race and ethnicity demographics of business owners, so the following steps were taken to narrow down the data to focus on that. 

As an early effort to append the data in this dataframe, columns which provided less specific information or information that did not relate to the questions addressed in this document were removed. This included columns such as "RACE_GROUP" (the code representing each "RACE_GROUP_LABEL") or "GEO_ID" (geographical location identifier - for this data, these were all attributed to the United States). Once the preliminary dataframe was built, it was broken down into two focused dataframes - one on race and one on ethnicity. 

 To filter the data going into these, "total", or larger aggregated, categories were removed. These included "All firms" tags of EMPSZFI_LABEL (number of employees at a firm), "Total", "Classifiable", "Unclassifiable", "Minority", "Nonminority" and "Equally minority/nonminority" tags of RACE_GROUP_LABEL, and "Total", "Classifiable" and "Unclassifiable" tags of ETH_GROUP_LABEL (ethinicty group label). These were removed as they were either: a) inclusive of data represented under more specific tags, or b) ambiguous in terminology (something tagged as a "classifiable" race group could very well also be tagged as "Black or African American", "Asian", or another more specific race group classification). 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q1 - How do ownership demographics change across industry sectors?
The following treemap displays the breakdown of number of businesses in each sector, divided by the race group of the business owner. 
As seen in the chart, White owned businesses make up a majority of the overall businesses, with a relatively even spread across industries. Minority-owned businesses, on the other hand, can be seen to be more strongly prevalent in a few industries - Asian and Black or African American owned businesses are more present in health care, accomodation, and professional, scientific and technical services. Similarly, Native Hawaiian owned businesses see most of their presence within professional, scientific and technological services, as well as in the administrative support industry. American Indian and Alaska Native owned businesses, on the other hand, seem too have a higher prevalence in the construction and manufacturing indsutries, as well as in professional, scientific and technological services and health care. 

In terms of ethnicity groups, businesses with Hispanic and non-Hispanic owners seem to have their presences spread across industries in similar proportions, although there are many more total non-Hispanic owned businesses. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q2 - Do the ownership demographics contrubite to the size of a firm?
The violin charts below depict the distribution of business firms with varying numbers of employees, divided between the owners' race group and ethnicity group. From the first chart, it can be seen that there are generally less firms with more employees across the board, although it is important to note that there is a strong trend of more even distributions as race groups become larger.

A similar trend can be seen when looking at businesses owned by Hispanic vs non-Hispanic ethnicities, where Hispanic and equally Hispanic/non-Hispanic owned businesss firms with less employees have a higher prevalence than those with more, while non-Hispanic owned business firms are a fair bit more evenly distributed.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q2, b & Q3- Do the ownership demographics contribute to the size of a business? And is company revenue affected by their ownership demographics?
To begin answering these questions, it is important to note the overall average revenue generated by businesses under different ownership race and ethnic groups. In the bar charts below, these comparisons are displayed. 

As seen above, the disparity between average revenues of non-Hispanic or White owned businesses and minority groups is immense, with a difference of about 10x increase in average revenue between the highest and second highest average business revenues of different race-group owners, and a 20x increase between non-Hispanic and Hispanic average business revenues. 

The following scatterplots are used to show the relationship between number of employees at a business and the revenue generated by that business, grouped by owner race group or ethnicity group. These also serve to highlight the disparity between the size and revenue of businesses with owners of differing groups. 

As White owned businesses heavily outweigh others in terms of revenue and number of employees, multiple scatterplots were included to better visualize the trends seen in businesses owned by minority groups.

Across the board, there is a similar positive trend between increasing employees and increasing revenue. For businesses owned by larger demographic groups, this trend is larger, nearing around 200/1 ($ revenue)/(number of employees). This can be seen with the data points for White and Asian owned businesses, as well as non-Hispanic owned businesses. On the other hand, owners of smaller demographic groups see trends closer to 100/1 ($ revenue)/(number of employees). This comes to show that, while these businesses may start at similar points in terms of revenue while their number of employees is smaller, businesses owned by minority groups will only see half the revenue of similarly sized businesses under White or non-Hispanic ownership.